# 8

### **RegEx:**

- [x] Write regular expression to match:
    - date given as dd-mm-yyyy or dd/mm/yyyy or dd.mm.yyyy format.
    - email id (name@domain.rest) [ **name** can be alphanumeric, **domain** and **rest** are alphabets]
    - Extract this information from the text below:
        - Mr. X date of birth is **02/10/1989** and email id is **[test@gmail.com](https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&to=test%40gmail.com&authuser=1)**.
- [x] Rewrite to Homo Sapiens to H. sapiens or any similar names of organisms (general regex)
- [x] Rewrite '>CAA57801.1= GFP [Mus Musculus]' to '>CAA57801_M.Musculus'. Note: there could be any number of characters/space between >ID. and '[' symbol 
- [x] Rewrite ">NM_001300425.1 Drosophila melanogaster Akt kinase (Akt), transcript variant E, mRNA" as ">NM_001300425_D.melanogaster_Akt_mRNA". Note: the >NM is fixed for any mRNA, the transcript variant may or may not be present i.e. the character after a variant is optional.
    - The general format is '>NM_DIGITS.ONE-TWO_DIGITS TAXON SPECIES LONG-NAME (SHORT_NAME), transcript variant OPTIONAL_TYPE, mRNA
    - LONG-NAME-multiple words, SHORT_NAME-one word OPTIONAL_TYPE-one single word

### **Reading PDB file**
- [x] Write a program to read the content of the PDB file (**atom_cord.pdb.txt**) into the _dict_ data type in the following form:

        ```
        x[RESID][ATOMNAME]=[Xcord,Ycord,Zcord]
        x[RESID]['resname']=RESNAME
        ```

    for instance, using x[5]['resname'] should return residue name and x[5][CA] should return list with coordinates.

    ```
    RESID: 23-26
    RESNAME:18-20
    ATOMNAME:12-16
    Xcord: 31-38
    Ycord: 39-46
    Zcord: 47-54
    ```


- [x] After reading the content, the program should be able to do the following:
    - [x] Find the composition of the residues. (occurrence of amino acids in the PDB file).
    - [x] Find whether a residue has the same number of atoms. Find the average number of atoms.
    - [x] Find the average distance between two consecutive CA residues using the formula:
        v1=[x1,x2,x3] and v2=[y1,y2,y3]
        vdiff=v2-v1 (vector difference)
        d=sqrt(vdiff.vdiff)

### Sequence Alignment
- [x] Perform sequence alignment of 'ATGCC' and 'AGC' using Dynamic Programming algorithm. Use Match score of 3, Mismatch score 0, and gap score of -1.